So use the right perks and the right adjectives to get the right people.
If you're building something it's very simple or it's a task that's very simple.
I like putting simple That's a very helpful word because people see that and they immediately think
Oh this is just something I can I can do very quickly.
I can turn my brain off.
Also what happens when you say it's a simple task.
What that kind of means is that you're not looking for the cream of the crop.
That means that you're just looking for someone who's reliable who's fast who you want it done relatively
soon and cheaply.
So that would be something that you don't put if you want to do align yourself with those types of contractors.
Now if you're trying to build something that's a little complex the contractor needs some kind of autonomy
and they need the ability to rationalize and think their way through it then that's not an adjective
that I would use.
Now one of my favorite perks to put onto this is long term Now that's one thing that I found that is
very very powerful in these posting applications long term positions are very attractive and in many
cases if it's a long term position they will be more flexible on what they give you in terms of rates
and in terms of timeline.
Now if I told someone that hey I've never worked the before.
I have an hour long task and you say your advertised rate is $10 an hour.
What leverage do I have to get them to lower that $10 an hour average or to get them to say produce
more or to give me the benefit the doubt when something goes wrong in the project.
Well there's actually not much but if you say it's a long term project.
Well there they have an incentive to kind of give you some leeway because they want this to continue.
Now also think about a contractor bidding on projects.
What ends up happening with a lot of contractors especially ones that are not particularly successful
is that they're constantly bidding and they end up spending like 40 percent of their time bidding and
finding projects and then 60 percent of time working on them.
So when they see a long term project that kind of signals to them hey I can focus more on my craft more
on what I do and more and making money and less on this procurement process this advertising process.
Now that's not a long term project personally and I'll talk about this later when we talk about writing
a description.
I always like to say that it has potential for long term a long term arrangement or long term relationship
even if you're not really sure if it does.
But if you like for instance if it's not this project itself is not a long term project what you can
sue is you can say things like follow up projects you can say long term relationship.
You can say looking at repeat business is another one repeat projects.
That's something that kind of conveys the same thing but it doesn't necessarily mean that the application
you're building right now is in itself something that's going to take a very long period of time.
When I say repeat projects or repeat work.
If you want to save some characters what that means that a freelancer is that hey once this is done
I have other ones that might be similar or I'm looking for a freelancer who's multi-verse toll someone
who if they do this well I have many other jobs for them.
We'll cover this when we talk about your description because that's something that you're going to want
to harp on over and over again.
But in your title it's something that can be very effective and it's not something that I see people
utilize very often.
OK so that really is the core of it.
Right.
So describe what you're doing at in some detail make sure that if there's a specific technology or specific
skill set make sure that it is blatantly obvious in the post.
If you have a comparable application make sure to have that up if you don't use a theme.
Give some kind of flavor some kind of detail to it and then make sure that you list out any perks you
can think you want to pay them extra.
Make sure that you put that in there if it's a long term project.
Make sure you put that up there.
If it's simple or can be done very quickly make sure to put that up there now perks are not really a
two way street.
It doesn't really make sense to say complex or difficult or the opposite or one time job that's those
don't ever work because those don't actually align themselves with what contractors want.
So personally I like to focus on the simple ones like again simple long term repeat projects.
There are other things you can focus on.
This actually depends on the platform but some of them don't really like this.
You could say Five-Star feedback.
That's another one.
All that really says is hey I give five star feedback I would only use that if you're using that with
a simple short term project something that's easy.
Easy's another one that's something that you know it kind of just depends if you're doing something
very simple very quick.
That's great.
People are concerned with building out their portfolio.
They'll put an extra effort into what you're doing.
One thing you can also put is say hourly.
Now if you're trying to hire someone hourly That is something that is attractive to freelancers and
contractors hourly is great because they get paid no matter what.
If you're doing a fixed price project they just know that it's a big payday at the end assuming they
hit all of their milestones and they hit all of their requirements that assuming you don't run out of
money halfway through.
So hourly signals less risk to the contractor to the freelancer.
So if you are doing an hourly task make sure that you put hourly and I always like to try to add some
kind of a character so it sticks out a little bit.
You can use plus signs you can use stars you can use caps or whatever it is.
Just make sure that all of the perks are easily readable or illegible.
So those are the positive words that I use frequently don't over think.
But if you have a simple hourly long term project make sure that you get those in the title.
Those are things that statistically will get you more bids over time.
There are things that I've used and we've used repeatedly to get a lot more bids.
You always see our projects because we have like 45 bids or other.
The average for any other project is like 10 or 11 or 12 now.
Negative words are ones that I would typically avoid.
I probably would avoid saying like problem or need fixed now.
Those probably have more to do with the project themselves.
But typically a developer or a designer or any type of a contractor freelancer They're more they're
going to be more inclined to bid on projects that are from scratch and not something where they're taking
over someone else's project.
Now there's better ways of phrasing that but I typically do not like to signal that right out of the
gate at the very beginning and that's typically what that means when I say fix a problem.
Well it kind of means that I had a problem probably from a different application or whatever it is that
I got made done and that I want you do to come in and fix the last person's mistakes.
No one really wants to do that so I prefer to leave those out.
One other thing that I will mention is that if you want this done right now make sure that you put that
right now.
That is something that's really kind of important saying you can put it here you can see it ASAP.
You can put right now.
Basically what this means is I'm looking for people who are sitting at their desk right this second
and I want them to start immediately.
Now if you don't put that and you this is a task you want to get started right now say it's like a data
entry task or say it's a mass mailing or an advertising or an organization task or something that you
give like a V.A. what will happen is if you don't put that you'll have a lot of people come in.
Did you like their bid you contact them and they don't come and check for the next 14 hours.
A lot of people especially because of time zones are going to be bidding as they're about to go to sleep
like at the end of the day or the end of the night or.
Or right before they start something or leave for lunch or whatever.
Now if you say right now people are going to know that that's probably not something they should do.
They're looking to start immediately.
And so they want to lock in this job or lock in this project they should be at their desk and they should
be responsive.
So that's something that's also very important to put in if you're building an application or a Web
site and you're not like crunched for time.
I wouldn't obviously put that especially if you're building a large project you should never be saying
I want to build it right now because you need time to vet these people and we're going to cover that
in the rest of the course.
Techniques for choosing the best person techniques for figuring out who's competent who's not reading
in between the lines and et cetera et cetera.
But you need to give yourself time to do that so don't ever look for an immediate start for a large
project or a large application.
OK.
And so that is basically the simple structure that you should follow.
It's really just what it is you need plus some description plus perks.
And obviously then you would need.
That's right.
Plus plus specific skills.
Civic's OK that's the way I always use it.
That's the most effective way that will make your project stick out.
And that's going to get you a lot more bids.
And if you just take a glance at some of the other Web sites like freelancer or some on e Lancer up
work or anything like that you'll notice very quickly people who make problems when they're actually
describing something like vague titles like this just calling it work.
What is that.
It's not really a surprise that they have zero proposals.
People who do things like putting it in all caps putting something in all caps not only looks bad but
it also just blends in with the rest of whatever someone else is writing.
There's a lot of missed opportunities too like we can see writing my kids book.
OK well they got the first section done.
I don't know why my kid's book is important but they should really add more description what is it about
what's the theme.
What exactly are you looking for are you looking for an illustrator or a writer or someone who's going
to sign the book cover or what is this.
Then there's some other ones that are good easy.
They use easy which is helpful copy paste job but they do need more descriptions and chances are they
have some kind of perk that they're not taking advantage of.
And there's got to be something else you can put in here to make it stick out.
So anyway if you need help writing a title always just post in the group discussion.
I can help you out.
It's also very helpful if you just go and look through some of the titles of what other people have
posted.
So the way that you find it on up work is quite literally you just want to go to ireport.com source
jobs on Elance.
You literally just go to find work search jobs browse search you just use criteria.
It's always helpful to look at titles of tasks or projects that are similar to what you're doing.
So when you search for jobs you can type in some keywords you might find applications or projects that
are similar.
We're not really looking for competitors.
We're just looking for other words other people use that might be helpful so that you don't miss anything.
And then when you're on freelance dotcom it's also very simple you just go to work browse all projects
projects my skills so you guys have any questions.
Make sure to just post in the group discussion in the next lecture we're gonna go over how to write
a good description what you need to include how to elaborate on some of these perks that I put in the
title.
But now that we've got them into our page now we need to get them the right information and to make
sure that we explain it correctly.
And also that we get the bids from the right contractors.
All right I'll see in the next lecture.